Slurm (#26)
nimh-dsst/lunch-and-learn: discussions/SLURM_jobs.md

# Big SLURM Jobs

## 3/25/2025

## Attendance: 7

### Introduction

DSST members and friends gathered together to discuss our hard-earned tips and tricks on running big SLURM jobs. Big referred to both large numbers of jobs, see the biowulf [swarm documentation](https://hpc.nih.gov/apps/swarm.html), and jobs requiring high compute and memory resources.

### Tips and Tricks

While a variety of strategies were discussed, most of the experiences boiled down to:

1. Assume failure. [Murphy's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murphy%27s_law#:~:text=Murphy's%20law%20is%20an%20adage,American%20aerospace%20engineer%20Edward%20A.) applies to your SLURM job. Even if you write your code perfectly, your prestine SLURM job can still fail if a squirrel chews through a power cable (yes, this actually happened at a university-run HPC). However, if you assume your code will fail, then you will be more inclined to incorporate some of the tatics below.

> 2. Logs. Logs. Logs. Monitoring the status of your job becomes much simplier if you use logs. Worried about parsing through a large log file? You can easily search a log file with [grep](https://www.gnu.org/software/grep/manual/grep.html), see the last few lines with [tail](https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/manual/html_node/tail-invocation.html) (great for seeing where the job failed), or view it with a text editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Logs. Logs. Logs. Monitoring the status of your job becomes much simpler if you use logs. Worried about parsing through a large log file? You can easily search a log file with [grep](https://www.gnu.org/software/grep/manual/grep.html), see the last few lines with [tail](https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/manual/html_node/tail-invocation.html) (great for seeing where the job failed), or view it with a text editor.
```

> 3. Test using a subset. Most jobs DSST members and friends have to content with are iterative. Job that run the same script over many, many files. Before hitting ruturn on the big `sbatch` command, consider testing the full process on a small subset of jobs. Nothing is worse than running through your days long SLURM job to find that the final aggregation process had an error in it. Don't have a large number of files but a single large file to process? Consider running a test job on a scaled down version of the file. For large image files, you can process a subregion you crop out. Have timeseries data? Process a reasonable amount of timepoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Test using a subset. Most jobs DSST members and friends have to contend with are iterative. Jobs that run the same script over many, many files. Before hitting return on the big `sbatch` command, consider testing the full process on a small subset of jobs. Nothing is worse than running through your days long SLURM job to find that the final aggregation process had an error in it. Don't have a large number of files but a single large file to process? Consider running a test job on a scaled down version of the file. For large image files, you can process a subregion you crop out. Have timeseries data? Process a reasonable amount of timepoints.
```
